---
title: Virtual Reaper
author: Colin Thom
date_utc: 1539966938.0
edited: true
permalink: https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/9pk5m6/wp_after_a_fatal_accident_you_stand_before_death/
Humor: false
Magical Realism: false
Fantasy: false
Horror: false
Poetry: false
SciFi: true
---
As I walk down the ravine along the familiar path, I realize it will be the last time. Ahead of me lies a lake. It is night.

The cool breeze runs crisp on my skin. Everything feels more real, more vivid. As my organic brain dies, the chips throughout my brain commit more of my mind to the virtual than ever before.

The light of the moon reveals a simple wooden boat moored next to a hooded figure. The moonlight gleams off the polished steel of a scythe.

My heart starts to pound as I approach the figure. Not in fear, but in anticipation. The path, the lake, the boat: all these are the work of others. But the reaper was my contribution to this death module.

As the hood of the Reaper falls back, golden hair tumbling down, my eyes fill with tears. Partly pride, to see the intelligence I helped program gleaming behind bright blue eyes. Partly sorrow, to see a face inspired by my beloved wife Mel, who passed away while we were still working on this virtual world, before ChipThink technology was fully complete.

My hand slides into the Reaper's. Soft and cool, her hand guides me up into the rocking boat. She steps in after me.

Fog closes around us as soon as we push off, and I turn forward to await the first glimpse of my afterlife.

Something is missing. I realize there is no sound of the pole of the scythe entering the water to push us forward. I turn around to see the Reaper studying me.

The Reaper's smile is different than I remember it. Tinged with a sadness born from watching millions of virtual souls pass through her waters. Tinged with a loneliness born from ferrying others to a virtual afterlife she to would never be a part of, bound as she was to ferry others across and with no loved ones of her own waiting on the other side.

I found that her loneliness mirrored my own. Mel would not be waiting for me on the other side.

I open my mouth to speak, but am silenced by the touch of two fingers on my lips.

"Ricky."

I inhale sharply. That voice, speaking my nickname with familiarity and affection. I had never thought to hear it again.

Mel knew she had cancer. Knew that she likely wouldn't live to see the virtual world we programmed together. But she had left me a part of herself in our work. Imperfect and incomplete, encoded with the first ChipThink prototypes into the complex entity standing before me. But party of her all the same.

The Reaper steps forward, her head tilted up to mine.

Our lips meet.
