---
title: Potentiality Index
author: Colin Thom
date: 1545957523.0
edited: true
permalink: https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/aa49v4/wp_everyone_is_born_with_1100_tally_marks/
Fantasy: false
SciFi: true
Humor: false
Magical Realism: true
Horror: false
Poetry: false
Micro: false
---
I am a 96.

My score, determined by a sophisticated AI and tattooed onto my arm at birth, gave me the license to do almost anything with my life. When you have more potential than 95% of the population, with a standard deviation of 2%, nobody questions you.

That score, known as a "potentiality index", isn't just for intellectual intelligence. It integrates  genetic propensity for emotional and physical intelligence as well.

I didn't have to study for tests.  I was the star of the basketball team. I won arguments easily, tripping up my opponent with logical games and playing to the crowd. Sure, if I got into an debate with an 80 percenter who had actually studied the topic, they might be a threat. But I could always pull the "what's your score again?" line, and they'd usually shut up and the crowd would give me the benefit of the doubt. I was untouchable.

But that was before Ian.

He kept his arm covered; not uncommon for those in the lower quartile. He was also quiet. I chalked that up to him saving himself the embarrassment of talking.
I almost felt bad for him on the first day of our engineering class. Poor kid would be out of his depth, I thought.

40% of our grade was based on the final team project: making a battlebot that would compete against other teams' battlebots. The other 3 students assigned to my team had a combined score of less than 80, probably to counterbalance my own capability.

In our first team meeting, it took me almost 5 minutes to put them in their place. They kept babbling about their ideas for the battlebot. "Flamethrower" this, and "electric saw" that. But once I rolled up my sleeve to show my 96 tick marks, they shut up pretty quick.

Looking over at Ian's group, I noticed he seemed too stupid to talk much. He kept listening to others on his team, nodding or asking simple questions. They oriented toward him, seeming to trust him to guide the conversation. Probably because they didn't have anyone better in the group. After all, I wasn't in it.

Our team, meaning myself, went for a high power laser design with an optical setup to focus the beam to a high enough intensity to cut through metal.

On the last day of class, the battles commenced.

The first three battles were easy. Once our bot got in range for its laser to work, all one had to do was press a button and the other bot exploded. It was so simple that anyone of my team could have executed the maneuver; not that I trusted any of them at the controls of course.

I didn't notice that Ian's team had made it to the finals until I saw them across the ring. As their bot advanced, I noticed it had both a flamethrower and a circular saw. Talk about uninspired!

I maneuvered my bot in range, pressed the laser button... and my bot exploded.

I stood in stunned silence as the trophy was awarded to Ian and his team. As they walked toward the exit, congratulating each other, my feet carried me forward.

"Ian!" My voice was hoarse in my throat.

He turned, and motioned his group to go on.

"How did you do that? How did you win?" I asked, trying not to let the desperation show in my voice.

"Oh, it was one of Lindsey's ideas actually." he said in an offhand way. "We placed a high quality mirror behind the front plating, to reflect any laser that an opponent might use. You know, if they went for a generic laser build".

"Oh..." I said. "So it wasn't one of your ideas."

"Nope," he admitted easily. "I helped sift through the ideas everyone came up with. The mirror seemed like a pretty inexpensive contingency, so we went for it."

"So, it's not like you are some genius." I ventured.

"No," he laughed, "certainly not". He turned to walk off.

"What's your score?" I asked.

Self consciously, he turned back to face me and tugged his sleeve farther down. "You know I don't share that."

"Please! I have to know!" I cried desperately, grabbing his arm and pulling his sleeve up.

A "∞" infinity sign was printed neatly on his arm.

"What does it mean?" I gasped. "Nobody can have infinite intelligence."

Ian straightened up and calmly tugged his sleeve back down.

"No, I'm not infinitely smart." Ian admitted easily. "But I do listen to others, and they trust me. Our bot was the product of all of our ideas offered freely, carefully refined by objective discussion. As my score indicates, I am not bounded by my own intelligence; I make myself better from those around me."

"After all," he called back as he walked away, leaving me alone in an empty classroom. "Infinity isn't a number, it is a direction without bound. But I assume you already know that definition, given you are a 96 percenter after all..."
