---
title: Grim lover
author: Colin Thom
date_utc: 1631364949.0
edited: true
permalink: https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/pm51n1/wpserial_killer_responsible_for_thousands_of/
Fantasy: false
SciFi: false
Magical Realism: false
Humor: false
Horror: false
Poetry: false
Micro: false
---

_Prompt: Serial killer responsible for thousands of deaths has a love-hate relationship with the grim reaper_

I stood by the dead body, waiting for her to come.

As the minutes ticked by, I thought back to the first time I saw her. Back then, she was only a shimmer. A rippling cloud of darkness that swept over the body of my hundredth kill.

I was still counting back then.

Maybe my intimacy with death brought me closer to its messenger. My soul, if I had one, drifting in limbo between this life and the next.

As I killed more, that darkness took shape. A woman, to my surprise, clad in a cloak that bled shadow.

She was the only person who didn’t look at me with fear. Among the living, anyone I met eyes with seemed to recoil, some animalistic instinct recognizing me as a predator.

“Who are you?” I asked her once.

“An end, and a beginning,” she had replied.

So poetic. And so infuriating.

I had thought to deny life to those I deemed unworthy, yet she dared to take them on to some further existence? It has taken me years to come to peace with the fact that I didn’t have the power to end someone completely. Years to forgive her for the final end she stole from me.

But seeing her dedication as she reached out a hand to every soul, regardless of how sullied they were, commanded a slow growing respect in me. I came to look forward to her visits after each kill. More so, even, than the kill itself.

Any minute now, she would come. For the last time.

In part to distract from my restlessness, I studied the body, which was still seated in the chair.

Handsome, in a swarthy sort of way, I thought with satisfaction. Even with the face partially contorted from the electrical shock. Electrocution has always been one of my favorite ways to kill. I had been curious what it would feel like.

A motion caught my eye, and I looked up into her face. The face of the person I had decided to spend the rest of my life with.

I gasped. While the rest of the world was in shadow, she seemed made of light.

“Are you ready to go?” She asked.

“Why do you think I turned myself in?” I managed to  respond.

Smiling, she held out her hand and I took it. Together we walked off. The body, my body, in the electric chair, faded into shadow behind us.
