---
title: The forbidden book
author: Colin Thom
date_utc: 1638676268.0
edited: true
permalink: https://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/r93xj1/wp_a_small_mostly_abandoned_library_has_every/
Fantasy: false
SciFi: false
Magical Realism: false
Humor: false
Horror: false
Poetry: false
Micro: false
---

_Promt: A small, mostly abandoned library has every book ever written and a kind librarian that knows them all by heart. You are allowed to read all of them but one. You break into and read the forbidden book._

I was surprised to find that death leads not to heaven or hell, but a library.

The librarian was a friendly old man. My only companion.

“Welcome to my library,” he greeted me with a smile that crinkled his whole face with wrinkles, like pages from a book turned too hastily.

“You may read any book here, save your own.” He raised a book with my name on the binding, and placed it into a gap on a shelf that stretched farther than the eye could see.

You might think it boring, to be caught timeless, adrift in a sea of stories. But each book I read brought me closer to a greater story. A story written not in the book of a single life but across all the books, across all lives. As I feel deeper into that story, I lost all sense of time.

Again and again I found myself wandering back to the shelf where my book rested. Each time, the librarian’s words came back to me, and I left my book unopened.

And so I continued to read of lives short and long, great and small, courageous and timid, loving and spiteful and often all of these things mixed together.

I read until my heart was overflowing. For it was not possible to see someone as they see themselves and not feel compassion.

Finally, after time untold, I realized I could no longer recall my own life. Was I good or bad? Did those labels even have any meaning to me anymore?

With trepidation, I pulled my book from the shelf and let it fall open.

The pages were blank. Hints of words so faded as to be illegible.

“It is time to return. Your next life awaits.”

I looked up to see the librarian smiling down on me. I had feared to see disappointment, but instead I only saw joy.
